# ECE6258
Sign Language Translation To Text
Version 1.0

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- Overview
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ECE 6258: Digital image processing 
Princess Irabor - irabor.princess1@gmail.com
  GTID: 903174270
Benjamin Sullins - bensullins1@gmail.com
  GTID: 903232988
Graduate Distance Learning Students
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering 
Georgia Instiute of Technology 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- This README section walks the user through the execution of the program.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- Code Exection:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1) Open Matlab (Development - Matlab 2010a)
  2) Change directory "cd" to the ./SignLanguage/matlab/ folder location.
  3) Open Sign_LanguageTranslator.m
  4) Run Sign_LanguageTranslator.m
  5) A GUI will open. A corresponding README button is available for further
      instructions.
      
  [GUI README Instructions]
  6)  Click the "Training Directory" button.
      a) This button loads the training images into the program.
  7) Click the "Extract Features" buttion.
      a) This button computes the feature vector for the training images
  8) Click the "Upload New Sign" button.
      a) This button allows the selection of an input character.
  9) Click the "Translate" button.
      a) This button computes the feature vectors and estimates the
          character based on the training vectors.
  10) View the results in the "Output" axes
      a) Additional plots, graphs, and results are provided throughout
          the GUI.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- This README section walks the user through the directory files.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- Project Directory Overview:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SignLanguage
  |_docs
  |_images
  |_imagesPristine
  |_matlab
  |_.gitignore
  |_README.md

  The ./docs/ directory houses the final project paper and corresponding powerpoint 
  slides for describing the project.

  The ./images/ directory houses the available input images. These are also used for 
  the training set (version 1).

  The ./imagesPristine/ directory houses the original training images with the 
  corresponding alphabet letter.

  The ./matlab/ directory houses the code for the project.

  The README.md file is the current file you are reading.

  The .gitignore file is for GitHub server support. (Used for development)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- This README section walks the user through the individial directory files.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Documents:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  docs
  |_Final Project.pptx
  |_IraborPrincess1_SullinsBenjamin2.doc
  |_System Implementation.pptx

  Final Project.pptx                    - Initial powerpoint describing concept for the project.
  IraborPrincess1_SullinsBenjamin2.doc  - Technical documentation describing project and results.
  System Implementation.pptx            - Initial attempt at describing execution of project code.

  images
  |_(*.jpg)

  Generic images pulled from the web. These have had their alphabet letters removed for completeness.

  imagesPristine
  |_(*.jpg)

  Similiar to the above, yet these have retained their alphabet letters for simple GUI output displays.

  matlab
  |_Sign_LanguageTranslator.fig
  |_Sign_LanguageTranslator.m
  |_preprocessing.m
  |_getImage.m
  |_descriptor_calc.m
  |_fourier_desc.m
  |_computeTrainingVector.m
  |_computeKMeansClusters.m
  |_classify.m
  |_main.m
  |_./linecurvature_version1b/
  |_./findobjs/

  Sign_LanguageTranslator.fig - GUI figure auto-generated by Matlab initially and continued modifcation 
                                by designers for producing the resulting GUI.
  
  Sign_LanguageTranslator.m   - Top level code. This should be run when executing the project. This file
                                handles the GUI inputs and outputs while also calling the appropriate
                                functions needed for operation.
  
  preprocessing.m             - Imports images into the program and modifies them accordingly to remove
                                major disimilarities between images that would impede code exection.
  
  getImage.m                  - Imports and image and returns it to the calling function.
  
  descriptor_calc.m           - This file computes the Length/Width, Orientation/Eccentricity, Finger
                                Segmentation (Number of Fingers), and the Fourier feature vectors. Think
                                of this as the meat and potatoes.
  
  fourier_desc.m              - Computes select Fourier feature vectors. Is called as a helper function
                                for the descriptor_calc.m file.
  
  computeTrainingVector.m     - This file takes the feature vector extractions and generates an array for
                                future execution amongst the results. The file also computes the distance
                                between the K-Means centroids to selectively choose which centroid the
                                training vector belongs to.
  
  computeKMeansClusters.m     - Takes the feature vector results and executes a K-Means clustering algorithm
                                to aid in reducing the overall complexity of the design. The centroids from
                                the clustering algorithm are used for adding region descriptors to the
                                estimation results to help in downselecting the available signs to only a 
                                select few. This removes large correlation computations to a small collection
                                of data points.
  
  classify.m                  - This file computes the final sign output based on the training vector feature
                                vectors and their corresponding group locations generated from the K-Means
                                algorithm. A correlation is run amongst the estimated group regions to
                                identify the most likely sign language character that the input belongs to.
  
  main.m                      - This file was the original Matlab file used in the project construction. It
                                is now obsolete, but is left for completeness, revision control, and debugging.

  ./linecurvature_version1b/  - The files located in this folder are from the following source: 
                                https://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/
                                32696-2d-line-curvature-and-normals. Accessed: Nov. 29, 2016.
                                These files were provided free of charge. We do not take credit for their work
                                or anything related to these files. They are solely the results of their author.
                                A license file is included with the folder which aids in describing the nature.
                                These functions were used for the Finger Segmentation feature vectors.

  ./findobjs/                 - This file includes code for the exection of opening and reading the readme file.
                                These files were provided free of charge. We do not take credit for their work
                                or anything related to these files. They are solely the results of their author.
                                A license file is included with the folder which aids in describing the nature.






